Videos

Cereals
Millets
Pulses
Oilseeds
Fibre Crops
Sugar Crops

Cereals
	Rice
		Mechanization
		Aerobic Rice 
		Crop Protection
		Hybrid Rice
		Seedling Throwing
		Wed Seeded
	Wheat
		Season and Vareities
		Field Preparation
		After Cultivation
Millets
	Maize
	Sorghum
	Cumbu
	Ragi
Pulses
	Blackgram
	Greengram
	Cowpea
	Garden Lab
	Field Lab

Government Schemes
	Budget
		Many significant changes are taking place the world over in the economic, political and technological fields. And
the science is challenging the boundaries of time, space, knowledge, and in fact, all that threatens possibilities for
further human development. Frontier sciences and their applications are dominating research efforts in the fields
of immediate relevance. The world, at present, has become highly interconnected and interdependent. Globalization
has given a big boost to speed and volume of a two-way trade-traffic among various nations. Resource-andplatform sharing has become increasingly common now in transboundary transactions. Forces of competition are in
full command and control trajectory of country's economic growth and its standing in the international market. It
is important that India, to remain proactive as a major player in this global-setting, should have a new vision with
a resurgent agriculture, which will remain the key sector of growth even in future.		

	Policy Notes
		Agriculture in India is the pivotal sector for ensuring food
and nutritional security, sustainable development and for
alleviation of poverty. It is the key sector for generating
employment opportunities for the vast majority of the
population. Since quite some time, agriculture sector, as a
whole, has been confronted with numerous challenges linked
to food and energy crisis coupled with climate change and
degradation of natural resources. This sector also influences
essential ecosystem services such as water and carbon
sequestration.
	Planning Commission & FYP
		Provided that where the information sought for concerns the life or liberty of a person, the same shall be provided
within forty-eight hours of the receipt of the request.
(2) If the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, fails to give
decision on the request for information within the period specified under sub-section (/), the Central Public
Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have refused the
request. 	Agrl. Schemes & Services
		India has made impressive strides on the agricultural front during the last three decades.
Much of the credit for this success should go to the several million small farming families that
form the backbone of Indian agriculture and economy. Policy support, production strategies,
public investment in infrastructure, research and extension for crop, livestock and fisheries have
significantly helped to increase food production and its availability. During the last 30 years,
India’s foodgrain production nearly doubled from 102 million tons in the triennium ending 1973 to
nearly 200 million tons (mt) in the triennium ending (TE) 1999. Virtually all of the increase in the
production resulted from yield gains rather than expansion of cultivated area. Availability of
foodgrains per person increased from 452 gm/capita/day to over 476 gm/capita/day, even as the
country's population almost doubled, swelling from 548 million to nearly 1000 million. 	ICAR
	Economic Survey


What is farming?
According to the Dictionary definition, “Farming is the act or process of working the ground, planting seeds, and growing edible plants. You can also describe raising animals for milk or meat as farming… Farming is a great way to describe the lifestyle and work of people whose jobs are in the agriculture industry.” The noun “farm,” which derives from the Medieval Latin Firma, originally meant, “A lease on farm land.” 

How important is agriculture to the overall economy?
Agriculture makes up about 4.5% of the nominal Gross Domestic Product of the United States. Though, in many other countries, agriculture contributes 5-10 times as much to the GDP. 

Why is agriculture important?
Agriculture plays a crucial role in the economy of developing countries, and provides the main source of food, income, and employment to rural populations. For many countries, agriculture is a leading economic source, with those countries helping to provide some of the US’s food as well.

Are family farms disappearing?
No. In fact, family farms make up the majority of farms in the US, both large and small. According to USDA, 93% of farms grossing over $1 million a year are family-owned. 

How does farm household income compare with the income of other US households?
Since the mid-1990s, farm households have consistently out-earned non-farm households. This is due to both farm operation income as well as remunerative off-farm employment.    